# Master's Final Project: Retirements of professional tennis players in previous ATP and WTA Tour tournaments
Code used for the analysis of the retirements in previous ATP and WTA Tour matches. Data obtained from https://github.com/skoval/deuce.

**Abstract**: The particularities of tennis and the high physical and psychological demands, together with the evolution of the game, impact on the number of retirements in professional tennis. The aim of this study was to analyze epidemiological patterns and risk factors associated with retirements in previous ATP and WTA Tour tournaments. A retrospective cohort study was conducted, covering the year period between 1978-2019 in men, and 1994-2018 in women. The results show an overall incidence rate of 1.56 (95%CI: 1.54, 1.59) and 1.36 (95%CI: 1.33, 1.39) retirements per 1000 games played in male and female competitions, respectively. An increasing trend of retirements over the years was observed in both cases. The surface of play, tournament category, match round, and age were analyzed as potential risk factors that influenced the number of retirements. Higher incidence rates in men and women were found in hard (1.59 [95%CI: 1.56, 1.63] and 1.39 [95%CI: 1.34, 1.44]) and clay surfac-es (1.60 [95%CI: 1.57, 1.63] and 1.36 [95%CI: 1.32, 1.41]) when compared with grass courts (0.79 [95%CI: 0.65, 0.94] and 1.06 [95%CI: 0.88, 1.27]), while the effect of the other risk factors differed between genders, being the tourney category significant in male competitions (IRR: 1.23 (95%CI: 1.19, 1.28) in ITF vs ATP) and the match round in female tournaments (IRR: 0.92 (95%CI: 0.88, 0.98) in preliminary vs final). These findings can provide coaches, players, and epidemiologists with a new insight on retirements and associated risk factors of matches in previous ATP and WTA Tour tournaments and help improve injury prevention.
